# Examiniation---Reflektionsuppgift

What is backend development?

People always feel confused when they talk about a full-stack developer, front-end developer, and back-end developer. Commonly, a full-stack developer is able to handle development on both the client side and server side. The front-end is what users interact with, and the back-end refers to the server side. In other words, users are rarely aware of backend development. According to learntocodewith.me (2019), backend developers primarily are in charge of servers, databases, and applications. On the contrary, front-end developers strive to establish and maintain a website that users can directly contact. Therefore, front-end developers and back-end developers have different responsibilities. The next section is to discuss what is cloud service and then I attempt to analyze what is backend developers’ challenges with respect to cloud service raising.

As technology develops, the duties of the backend development vary over time. One thing is that cloud service appears and becomes prevailing. Radiocrafts (2019) point out that rather than a local hard drive, people can get access to the data through the internet. In comparison with tradition servers, the cloud service has several advantages: lower cost, easier collaboration, and more flexibility. Meanwhile, tech giants such as Google are glad to invest 1 billion dollars in cloud services (Reuters, 2021). It is also clear that backend developers encounter an array of new challenges, while cloud service becomes more and more popular. First, security is an important challenge for backend developers. Some IT experts point out that backend developers utilize cloud services at the expense of security. An example is that a backend developer cannot control machines, networks, and storage when he/she uses infrastructure as a service (aka IAAS). Data may become lost in the remote data center or during transfer. During Trivector’s presentation, Leif discussed that they used TravelVu to collect users’ data. If the data is leaked, it is undeniable that users would be reluctant to share their data with Trivector. In the end, Trivector will lose their credential because of data security. 

Backend developers also need to address lagging problems associated with cloud service. In Swedspot’s presentation, Niclas introduced the mechanism of Ezentric. With cloud service’s help, users are aware of the condition of their vehicles, such as battery status and active events. Users rather know the current situation of their vehicles than 20 minutes before. Backend developers need to make sure that their codes are high-efficient, simple, and clear so that users can receive information as soon as possible. Annotell also needs to fix a similar problem when they apply an autonomous drive system. In order to address the aforementioned challenges, backend developers are inclined to choose Java as a programming language. Puzhevich (2022) illustrates that Java is characterized by cross-platform, multi-threading, security, scalable, and open-source libraries. 

This article primarily introduces what is backend development in comparison to frontend development. Backend developers mainly deal with servers, databases, and applications, which users rarely interact with. Moreover, this article discusses what backend developers handle with respect to cloud service raising. Rather than purely theoretical analyses, this article also offers a couple of real examples. In the end, the article also analyzes why backend developers choose Java in order to address these challenges.

Reference:
Learn to Code With Me. (2019). Backend Development; A Beginners Guide for 2019. [online] Available at: https://learntocodewith.me/posts/backend-development/.

Radiocrafts (2019). What is Cloud Development? And Why Should You Use Real Sensor Data Versus Simulated Data When Developing Your Cloud Application? [online] Radiocrafts. Available at: https://radiocrafts.com/what-is-cloud-development-and-why-should-you-use-real-sensor-data-versus-simulated-data-when-developing-your-cloud-application/ [Accessed 14 Sep. 2022].

Reuters (2021). Google to invest $1 bln in CME Group, agrees cloud computing deal. Reuters. [online] 4 Nov. Available at: https://www.reuters.com/technology/google-invest-1-bln-cme-group-agrees-cloud-computing-deal-2021-11-04/.

Puzhevich, V. (2020). Why Use Java for Back-end Development? Available at: https://scand.com/company/blog/why-use-java-for-back-end-development/ [Accessed 14 Sep. 2022].

